Today, nearly everybody's life is affected in one way or another by data science.
From self-driving cars to smart phones,
from product recommendations to automated customer service,
from automated medical diagnosis to predictive medical care, data science,
machine learning and artificial intelligence
are present in nearly every aspect of modern life.
Businesses clearly have much to gain by pursuing data science initiatives.
You might remember the course outline from the introduction lesson.
It's important that we build a solid foundation
before diving more deeply into the later topics.
This lesson lays the groundwork for the data science for business leaders course.
We discussed data science,
what it is and what it isn't.
The goal of this first lesson is to introduce
you to the many flavors of data science methods,
aspects of the data science process,
and some basic foundational requirements for
success and risk factors that might lead to failure.
This knowledge will serve as a foundation as we proceed to
learn about executing data science initiatives in the course.
Upon completion of lesson one,
you should be able to successfully carry out the following tasks.
Classified data science projects in terms of area,
approach and type of model.
For a given area approach and model type,
provide one example project from your business.
Given the particulars of a data science project,
identify areas of concern that might lead to the project failing.
identify steps that could be taken to help ensure the project succeeds.